RFC: Disallow `name T` and `name(T)` in future syntactic extensions for type annotations (#589)
Roblox/luau: rfcs/reserve-name-followed-by-parens.md

> # Ban `name T` and `name(T)` proposals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Disallow `name T` and `name(T)` in future syntactic extensions for type annotations
```

## Summary

> We propose to ban any proposals for the syntax ``<name> `('`` as well as `<name> <type>` in type annotations, regardless of where they show up, e.g. a type or a type pack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We propose to disallow the syntax ``<name> `('`` as well as `<name> <type>` in future syntax extensions for type annotations to ensure that all existing programs continue to parse correctly.
```

### `F(T)`?

An example that _will_ cause a change in semantics:

```
local t: F
(u):m()
```

where today, `local t: F` is one statement, and `(u):m()` is another. If we had the syntax for `F(T)` here, it becomes invalid input because it gets parsed as

```
local t: F(u)
:m()
```

This is important because of the `setmetatable(T, MT)` case:

```
type Foo = setmetatable({ x: number }, { ... })
```

For `setmetatable`, the parser isn't sure whether `{}` is actually a type or an expression, because _today_ `setmetatable` is parsed as a type reference, and `({}, {})` is the remainder that we'll attempt to parse as a statement. This means `{ x: number }` is invalid table _literal_. Recovery by backtracking is technically possible here, but this means performance loss on invalid input + may introduce false positives wrt how things are parsed. We'd much rather take a very strict stance about how things get parsed.

### `F T`?

An example that _will_ cause a change in semantics:

```
local function f(t): F T
    (t or u):m()
end
```

> where today, the return type annotation `F T` is simply parsed as just `F`, followed by a ambiguous parse error from the statement `T(t or u)` because its `(` is on the next line. If at some point in the future we were to allow `T` followed by `(` on the next line, then there's yet another semantic change. `F T` could be parsed as a type annotation and the first statement is `(t or u):m()` instead of `F` followed by `T(t or u):m()`.

Reviewer: Note that table literals don't have the ambiguous error (due to the need to support muilti-line DSLs). So for `F T` there are more damning examples, such as

```
local function f(t): F
  T(t or u):m()
end
```

or

```
local function f(t): F T
  { 1, 2, 3 }
end
```

Author: Good point, will add those in too.
